Those of us who grew up playing skill-intensive, currency-based games like Monopoly at some point become adults, and the flimsy orange $500 bills that we conceal in our stack at some point become our retirement funds. Currency plays a huge role in our lives, starting with kindergarten classes in which we are socialized to appreciate the intrinsic value that a dollar bill holds. As technology liberates us from everyday struggles that we didn’t even know we had, one of the most strongly guarded facets of the status quo, fiat currency, is at risk of deprecation at the hands of rapidly growing cryptocurrencies. Although they currently have an insignificant role in large-scale global commerce, within the next twenty years cryptocurrencies will rise above their associated social stigmas, and become the mainstream medium of exchange in a hyper-globalized economy, displacing traditional national currencies and bringing with them waves of disruptive social changes.

## What is Blockchain?

A key component of the value that cryptocurrencies hold is the technology that allows for their existence, referred to as [blockchain](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/blockchain.asp). This term has become a buzz-word in recent years, and may seem like a nebulous to those that are not technically-inclined, but the root of the technology is an intuitive principle: redundancy. Essentially, a blockchain is a very long list - a ledger - of blocks. Each block consists of many records. Each record is a piece of data, likely a transaction (Person X gives Person Y 1 bitcoin). These records, bundled into blocks, are encrypted and then added to the ledger. Powerful machines known as Nodes comprise a network that uses raw computing power to decrypt these blocks, and check that every computer in the node has the same output when a certain block is decrypted (this ensures that a block is not tampered with). Because of the redundant nature of blockchain networks, there is no central authority that stores - and maintains - the data. This redundancy makes it very difficult to remove records from the ledger or modify records in the ledger, giving blockchain technology, and any other applications that leverage it, absolute transparency. [See Reuter’s excellent graphic explanation of blockchain technology.](http://graphics.reuters.com/TECHNOLOGY-BLOCKCHAIN/010070P11GN/index.html)

## How Cryptocurrencies Will Affect Macroeconomic Indicators
Why does America enjoy abundance and economic growth while Nigera doesn’t? There are a multitude of answers to this question, many going back to the age of colonialism, however there’s one consideration (or perhaps a symptom) that is often overlooked: Nigerians do not have trust in their financial infrastructure. Charles Wheelan outlines this point in Naked Economics: “With many of the world’s economies plagued by endemic corruption, particularly in the developing world, \[...\] foreigners often envy us for \[...\] our Washington Bureaucrats” . Trust in financial institutions is vital to sustaining a thriving economy, and in many developing countries corruption leads to distrust. Cryptocurrencies, by their absolutely transparent nature, are a financial institution that citizens of developing countries can put their trust in, in the event that their own government and regulatory bodies are too corrupt to do an effective, fair job.

When credit / debit cards made their debut, many Americans were reluctant to transition to a cashless lifestyle, however now it's difficult to imagine a world without them. The ubiquity of credit and debit cards ushered the [$3.5 trillion ecommerce industry](https://www.statista.com/statistics/379046/worldwide-retail-e-commerce-sales/) into the global economy, yet they also changed the way that Americans perceive money. According to [M.I.T. marketing professor Duncan Simester](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/27/your-money/credit-cards-encourages-extra-spending-as-the-cash-habit-fades-away.html), “You’re not forking over a dollar bill, so there is less sensation of loss” . When we spend without seeing our money leave our hands, we get less of the negative impulse associated with spending money, a phenomenon that can hijack the brain and lead to poor spending practices. A similar phenomenon occurs when we spend cryptocurrencies, as pressing a few buttons on our phones doesn’t leave the same mental impact on us as does forking over our hard-earned dollars in person. [Consider Jon and Samantha, a New York couple](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2017/12/what-people-spend-bitcoin-on.html) who paid for their child’s education using bitcoin. “Somehow, sending $33,000 in bitcoin instead of writing a $33,000 check feels like Monopoly money, like free money”, says Jon, a benefactor of the recent cryptocurrency boom that has taken place. Whether or not this increase in spending is good for households depends on the financial responsibility of American families. We can infer, however, that in a society wherein cryptocurrencies are the primary medium of exchange, increased consumer spending would stimulate aggregate demand, and push the economy into expansion.	

## What Financial Institutions Need to Do

We lie at a very important turning point in the history of finance, a point where the existing old guard of financial institutions can choose to adapt and implement blockchain technology into their systems, or be outperformed by their younger, more agile rivals. Efforts have been made by some such behemoths, such as [JP Morgan and their JPM Coin](https://www.forbes.com/sites/darrynpollock/2019/03/07/forget-cryptocurrencies-how-can-financial-institutions-make-use-of-blockchain/#44bdea625fff), but more needs to be done if the status quo is to be preserved to any degree.
